README.md, before:

# COMP30680 Web Application Development Assignment 1: HTML and CSS
## Limerick Animal Welfare - A Charity Website

For my submission, I decided to take a charity which I care about and improve the design of their existing website. [Limerick Animal Welfare](http://www.limerickanimalwelfare.ie/) are a no-kill animal shelter, located approximately 30 miles from Limerick City. In addition to their animal rescue, they promote the humane treatment of animals throughout society.

Throughout my submission, I've endeavoured to seperate content and styling by using appropriate, valid HTML and CSS. In particular the assignment requested the use of the following.

### Links to both my own pages and external webpages

My navigation bar (e.g. index.html, lines 13-24) includes links to both my own pages, as well as external sites such as Facebook, Instagram and Google Maps. I also include a link to my Donate page in my landing page banner (index.html, line 30), as well as external links in my Contact page (contact.html, lines 48-50)

### A navigation bar

My navigation bar is positioned on the top of each page's layout. What differs is that I created an 'active' css class to highlight which page is being displayed. You can find an example of my nav element in my index page (index.html, lines 13-24).

### A least one table

I've included a table on the Donation page (donate.html, lines 30-61) listing what your money goes toward funding.

### At least one list (ordered or unordered)

My site includes two unordered lists:
1. The navigation bar is an unordered list that has been formatted with CSS.
2. The *Useful Links* section of my Contact page (contact.html, lines 45-52) is an unordered list of image links.

### At least one local or embedded video

There is an embedded Youtube video on my About page (about.html, line 32).

### At least four CSS3 and four HTML5 elements

My HTML5 specific elements include
1. A `<nav>` element (index.html, line 13)
2. A `<section>` element (index.html , line 26)
3. A `<header>` element that includes the introductory content for that page (e.g. contact.html, line 25)
4. A `<footer>` element (index.html, line 46)

My external stylesheet, styles.css, includes numerous CSS selectors and CSS properties.

### Make use of the CSS positional properties (e.g. position, float)

I use the CSS positional property `float: left` in creating my navigation bar. I also make use of it again when changing the layout of the navbar on smaller screens (< 600px).

```
@media screen and (max-width: 600px){
  nav > ul li {
    float: none;
  }
  .social-li {
    float: none;
  }
}
```
### Make use of both inline and block elements

There are several examples of explicitly declaring elements' `display` properties in my external stylesheet. For instance:
1. `nav li > a` is set to `display:block`.
2. My Contact page consists of two inline-block elements wrapped in an enclosing `div` element. This allows me to set the height and width of these elements while displaying them in-line on larger screens.
3. I use inline `span` elements for adding emphasis to copy (e.g. about.html, line 35)

## Additional Features of HTML and CSS

In going beyond the parts of HTML and CSS described in class, I wanted to further explore two important aspects of modern design for the web, responsive design and accessibility.

### Responsive Design

TODO: Include media queries and how I tested on Google Chrome Dev Tools etc.

### Accessibility

TODO: Include semantic html for all elements, test with a screenreader etc.

Commit message:

Add responsive layouts for smaller screens (<600px)

README.md, after:

# COMP30680 Web Application Development 
## Assignment 1: HTML and CSS

For my submission, I decided to take a charity with a mission that resonates with me and improve the design of their existing website. [Limerick Animal Welfare](http://www.limerickanimalwelfare.ie/) are a no-kill animal shelter, located approximately 30 miles from Limerick City. In addition to their animal rescue, they promote the humane treatment of animals throughout society.

Throughout my submission, I've endeavoured to seperate content and styling by using appropriate, valid HTML and CSS. In particular the assignment requested the use of the following.

### Links to both my own pages and external webpages

My navigation bar (e.g. index.html, lines 13-24) includes links to both my own pages, as well as external sites such as Facebook, Instagram and Google Maps. I also include a link to my Donate page in my landing page banner (index.html, line 30), as well as external links in my Contact page (contact.html, lines 48-50)

### A navigation bar

My navigation bar is positioned on the top of each page's layout. What differs is that I created an 'active' css class to highlight which page is being displayed. You can find an example of my nav element in my index page (index.html, lines 13-24).

### A least one table

I've included a table on the Donation page (donate.html, lines 30-61) listing what your money goes toward funding.

### At least one list (ordered or unordered)

My site includes two unordered lists:
1. The navigation bar is an unordered list that has been formatted with CSS.
2. The *Useful Links* section of my Contact page (contact.html, lines 45-52) is an unordered list of image links.

### At least one local or embedded video

There is an embedded Youtube video on my About page (about.html, line 32).

### At least four CSS3 and four HTML5 elements

My HTML5 specific elements include
1. A `<nav>` element (index.html, line 13)
2. A `<section>` element (index.html , line 26)
3. A `<header>` element that includes the introductory content for that page (e.g. contact.html, line 25)
4. A `<footer>` element (index.html, line 46)

My external stylesheet, styles.css, includes numerous CSS selectors and CSS properties. Some elements introduced in CSS3 are

1. `border-radius` is used to produce the rounded corners on my cards and on the 'Donate' button on the index (styles.css, line 101).

2. `opacity` is used to make the banner description tag-line more visually interesting (styles.css, line 95).

3. `box-shadow` is used to create shadows around elements (styles.css, line 135).

4. `transition` is used to change the background colour and text colour of my large Donate button (styles.css TODO FIX ME).

### Make use of the CSS positional properties (e.g. position, float)

I use the CSS positional property `float: left` in creating my navigation bar. I also make use of it again when changing the layout of the navbar on smaller screens (< 600px).

```
@media screen and (max-width: 600px){
  nav > ul li {
    float: none;
  }
  .social-li {
    float: none;
  }
}
```
### Make use of both inline and block elements

There are several examples of explicitly declaring elements' `display` properties in my external stylesheet. For instance:
1. `nav li > a` is set to `display:block`.
2. My Contact page consists of two inline-block elements wrapped in an enclosing `div` element. This allows me to set the height and width of these elements while displaying them in-line on larger screens.
3. I use inline `span` elements for adding emphasis to copy (e.g. about.html, line 35)

## Additional Features of HTML and CSS

In going beyond the parts of HTML and CSS described in class, I wanted to further explore two important aspects of modern design for the web, responsive design and accessibility.

### Responsive Design

To make my website more responsive, I created new styling for devices with widths less than 600px (e.g. smartphone devices). I switch to smaller versions of my banner images which display better, and added some opaque background to texts to make them more readable.

TODO: Create dropdown for mobile layouts

### Accessibility

TODO: Include semantic html for all elements, test with a screenreader etc.
